ACT LED
One of the LEDs on the Raspberry Pi board. It can be controlled
programmatically and is used for signalling status when no other
communication channel is available. However, in the most recent
version of the car (using Raspberry Pi 3), a separate LED placed
on two neighbouring pins must be used instead.

actuator
A device which affects the environment, controlled by a computer. It may
move, light, sound etc.

ADC
Analog to Digital converter. There is one on the car, reading the voltage
of the battery.

autosar
An operating system commonly used in vehicles. The two nodes SCU and VCU
run autosar on the car.

BEC
See UBEC.

CAN
A hardware bus (with accompanying software protocol) commonly used in
vehicles. It connects the three nodes on a car. Physically it consists
of two cables, one special board on each car sitting on the Raspberry
Pi and a terminating resistor on one of the boards.

ECM
External Communication Manager. The Java program running on the TCU
mediating between the trusted server and the autosar nodes VCU and
SCU. Also propagating MQTT messages out.

ECU
Electronic Control Unit, a small computer with a limited number of tasks,
used in a modern vehicle.

electric brake
When changing the input signal to the motor, 0 means that the car will
roll and friction will eventually stop it. Using a value with the opposite
sign of the direction it is moving will however make the motor brake
actively.

ESC
Electronic Speed Controller. Converts binary values from -100 to 100
to the electrical high-current impulses that the motor needs. Can be
configured for various speeds.

fresta
An older name for the MOPED project, which is still visible in some places.

GPIO
General Purpose I/O. Some of the pins on a Raspberry Pi can be read or
written freely by software, either polling or interrupt-driven,
conveying one bit of information at a time.

gyro
A subfunction of the IMU, which presents the angular speed around the three
axes.

I2C
Inter-Integrated Circuit. A protocol for connecting peripheral
devices to a Raspberry Pi. See also SPI.

IMU
Inertial Motion Unit. A device which measurs motion, for example acceleration
and gyro (see gyro).

LED
Light Emitting Diode. On the front of the car are two yellow and one red
LED, which can be controlled by writing to the appropriate autosar port.
See also ACT LED.

MQTT
Message Queue Telemetry Transport. An internet protocol for
communicating by storing messages on a server in the form of values
associated with hierarchical keys.

PIRTE
Plugin Runtime Environment. The addition to autosar that enables the
running of Java plugins.

plugin
A Java program intended to be run on the SCU or VCU as an autosar task.

port
A communication abstraction on autosar: communication between autosar
tasks (on the same or different nodes), as well as reading from sensors and
writing to actuators, is done by reading/writing to ports.

RFID
Radio-Frequency Identification. A means of being notified when a reader
passes closely by a passive tag.

SCU
Sensor Control Unit.  One of the three Raspberry Pi's on the car. It
runs autosar and is named for its handling of sensors.

sensor
A device which conveys information about the environment to a computer,
for example temperature, speed, distance, etc.

SPI
Serial Peripheral Interface [bus]. A protocol for connecting peripheral
devices to a Raspberry Pi. See also I2C.

squawk
An implementation of a Java virtual machine, for use on autosar.

TCU
Telematic control unit. One of the three Raspberry Pi's on the car. It 
runs Linux and handles the communication with the external world.

trusted server
The trusted server manages the plugins which are available for use. It
is trusted in the sense that the cars only accept plugins from this server.

UART
Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter, used for serial communication.
Here, mostly for debugging, by connecting a terminal emulator to the
SCU or VCU.

UBEC
Universal Battery Elimination Circuit. Connected to the battery and provides
a constant voltage to the Raspberry Pi's and the servo. Can also be called
Voltage Regulator.

VCU
Vehicle control unit. One of the three Raspberry Pi's on the car. It
runs autosar and is named for its handling of the motor and steering.

VIN
Vehicle Identity Number (but it may be any name). A short readable name
which identifies a car.
