
* speed (VCU, ports 5 and 6)

This is computed from the frequency with which a light is turned into
pulses by five reflectors distributed evenly on the inside of a wheel. Thus,
only the absolute value of the speed is reported.  The sensors sit on the
front (port 5) and the back (port 6) wheels on the right side.

The measurements are made by a separate process, which writes a value into
a memory cell which the sensor port then reads. So reading fast gives you
the same value several times in sequence. This is maybe the case with all
sensors.

What is directly measured is the distance travelled rather than speed,
so the sensor can be called an odometer. The speed is computed by a
filtering process.

XXX: reported on CAN bus, too

Testing the speed sensor without actually using the motor is easy: rotate
one of the back wheels by hand (the mechanics make the other wheel rotate
in the other direction).


If the speed sensor unit is fastened with a wire, it may happen that
the wire gets in the way of the path of the light, causing some or all of
the reflectors to be ignored.

XXX: front, rear, left, right, averaging

Experiments have been made with putting the sensor for port 5 on the
rear left wheel instead, so that the average of the two will give the
car's real speed. In practice, it's possible to use information about
the turning speed together with only the rear right wheel speed, so the
original arrangement is kept for the time being.

* distance (SCU, port 13)

Minimum distance is 3 cm. 37xx is maximum, but it seems to mean that it
doesn't detect the echo. 637 is the highest value I have received which
represents a real distance.

The area reached by the sensor has an angle of about 30 degrees in
both directions from the forward direction. I don't know if the shape
is conical, or if it is wider in the left-right direction than up-down.
It points slightly upwards so it will miss the floor, or if it hits
the floor, the angle is such that the echo won't return.

It seems that it only detects the echo if its angle to the reflecting
surface is 45-90 degrees.

* battery (VCU, port 7)

See moped-battery.txt.

* position (VCU, port 8)

See moped-optipos.txt.

* accelerometer/gyro (SCU, port 14)

I2C
IMU
six values

The MPU9150 (accelerometer) unit also has a magnetometer, so one can
get the orientation with some additional code. Note that since the autosar
code as configured now cannot transmit more than six values, then either
the acceleration or gyro values can be used, but not both.

