

* steering (VCU, port 4)

-100 (left) to 100 (right)

0 should be straight ahead, but the mechanics may be such that setting
0 after -100 makes the wheels point straight ahead, while doing so after
100 makes them stay noticeably to the right.

Minimum turning diameter: 166 cm

XXX: configuring the servo in main.c, toe-in, hysteresis
XXX: measuring steering: use ang speed


* speed (VCU, port 3)

The value can be set to between -100 and 100. Negative numbers mean
reversing. At least 0 should be set explicitly. More things may be
needed, but I don't understand this yet. Suitable pauses are
important.

To init the ESC after it is turned on, set speed to 0. You should hear
three beeps.

Currently, the actual reverse speed is lower than the forward speed,
for the same speed setting. This can apparently be configured
somewhere in the motor unit.

When going forward, setting the speed negative invokes a brake.
Setting it to zero lets the car roll. In order to reverse, the car must
be standing still first.

The minimum value magnitude for which the car moves is 7.

Braking distance for speed yyy: xxx

XXX: function of battery level, discreteness
XXX: measuring speed: see speed sensor

* LED (VCU, port 9)

The LEDs are numbered 1 to 3. To light one, set it to 0. To extinguish,
set it to 1.

LED 1 = red
LED 2 = right yellow
LED 3 = left yellow

Send a string like this to the port: "3|1".

XXX: the Led plugin

The ACT LED on the Raspberry Pi board can also be controlled this way,
by using the LED number -1. The value is then not 0 or 1, but a blinking
pattern. This can be used on the SCU as well.

The LED blinks in a pattern that is described by a number, which when
represented as a sequence of hexadecimal digits, 1-f, defines the time
the LED is on or off, where f is about one second. The first nonzero
digit represents the LED being on.

On the most recent Raspberry Pi's, the physical ACT LED on the board
is not controlled by MOPED (it is possible, but needs additional
driver code), so we use pins 31 (ground) and 32 to light an external
LED.

TODO: put all information in the table in Plugin Manual here.
