
At times, you think you are doing the right thing but nothing happens. Here
are some common situations.


A GtkTerm is running and connected to the VCU/SCU, but when the node starts, the
GtkTerm shows nothing.
If the cable has been disconnected and then inserted again, GtkTerm must be
configured again for the right speed.

An SD card adapter has been inserted in the computer, but it is read-only.
It happens, maybe more easily with much used cards, that the read-only switch
on the card gets half moved to the read-only position when the card is
inserted, and that is enough. Slide it back and take care to not let that
edge of the card rub on the socket when inserting it.

The car starts and the TCU contacts the server, but the VCU (or SCU) doesn't
do anything.
It happens (one time in 20?) that the VCU/SCU doesn't boot properly when
powered on. Check if the heartbeat light is blinking. If not, reboot everything
or just the VCU/SCU, depending on your needs.

When a plugin is installed on the car, the plugin doesn't start, and other
plugins running on the same node stop.
The kernel image on the VCU/SCU must be made from the same build of the
system's squawk component as is used by the server when the plugin is uploaded.
Otherwise the so-called hash codes will differ, and the plugin can't run.
This is reported on the console output of the VCU/SCU. Depending on which object
needs updating, you may have to copy the current image to the VCU/SCU, and then
in any case upload the plugin again. Note that the node must be restarted
as well, since this condition crashes it.

The GUI doesn't let you install plugins, although it used to.
Sometimes, you are logged out from wordpress. If that happened, log in again.

The car doesn't succeed in contacting the server.
1) The server is not running
2) The network that the car is contacting is not up, for example a hot spot
on a smartphone not started.
3) There is a problem with routers and permissions etc. Try an ethernet cable.

After doing some action on the TCU and restarting, it seems nothing changed.
If you restart directly after changing files, the changes may not have been
written to the card. Always do 'sync' before restarting after altering files.

A plugin can be installed and run on the actual car but not on the
simulator, or the other way around, although it only uses ports supported
by both.
The simulator and the car use different entry points. Make sure the plugin
has a zero-argument constructor, a one-argument (String []) constructor,
and a 'main' method.

Steering doesn't work properly: has the extra cable of the battery
inserted itself in the servo?

If the IMU won't be inited: some pin may be loose - just wiggle them a
little.
