Don't force the front wheels to change steering by hand. Doing so
generates a current, which may be high enough to damage circuits.

The small loudspeakers I bought at Clas Ohlson run without charging
for at least 12 hours (at least when not emitting sound). 5 minutes of
charging (whether turned on or not) gives one hour of use.

The speed of the car: 20m in between 10 and 50 s.
The lowest value for the speed port that results in movement is 7.
Smallest circle has outer diameter 153 cm. At lowest speed, it is
circumvented in 13s.

When "ready? 0 xxx", xxx being some number, appears on ECU serial
output, it means that the Can reception works, but PIRTE is not
running.

ACT LED blinking (the first LED on the Raspberry Pi board)
 The LED blinks in a pattern that is described by a sequence of
 hexadecimal digits, 1-f, representing the time the LED is on or off,
 where f is about one second. The first nonzero digit represents the
 LED being on.

 The normal state is 121f; that is, a rapid on-off-on followed by off for
 one second.

 A plugin can set the pattern by pretending to write to ordinary LED
 number -1. When an installation succeeds, the pattern will revert to 121f.

 When a plugin started installing but failed, it changes to 21f1; that is,
 a rapid off-on-off followed by on for one second.
 In this state, an installation can be retried, and running plugins still
 run.

 When the virtual machine crashes (which means that plugins stop and nothing
 can be installed), the pattern is 121218.

 When the virtual machine detects a condition that makes it exit, for example
 out of memory, the pattern is 4141. Functionally, this state is equivalent to
 the one above.

 The node may crash in such a way that the blinking stops - then the LED will
 be either constantly on or off. It can also crash in such a way that the
 LED flickers.

 If the pattern is 55, it means that the Java virtual machine never started.

Port 22 is for reading position information, sent to the VCU from the TCU
when an external image processing server is running.

When setting up the system, change new-server/settings.properties so
it points out the MOPED directory.
Also, change ecm-linux/settings.properties so the server will be found,
and, after copying it to the TCU, set the VIN to something unique
(especially relevant if you have several cars).

