
This is the main documentation file for MOPED. It does not contain
very much except references to other files.

To understand the rest of this document, you may want to read
moped-overview.txt, where the architecture is broadly described, and
special terms introduced. Refer to moped-glossary.txt for special
abbreviations and terms.

To get a complete MOPED system up and running from scratch, you need to
perform the following steps:

(You may be able to use an existing server, with GUI, and then you don't
need to do B-D.)


A Fetch the source code from github.
  git clone https://github.com/sics-sse/moped
  This will create a directory "moped" in your current directory.

B Set up a mysql server. Wordpress will use one (step D), so if it's
  convenient, we can use the same one. See moped-mysql.txt.

C Build the MOPED system, and start the server.
  You need to install maven first for building, if you don't have it.
  See moped-building.txt.

D Set up a wordpress server with the MOPED GUI files. 
  It may be able to use the mysql server from step B.
  See moped-setup-gui.txt.

E Build the remote control app for Android.
  See moped-android.txt.

F Construct a car, or get acquainted with an existing one. There are
  building instructions on http://moped.sics.se.
  See also moped-car.txt.

G Put the appropriate code from C on three SD cards, one for each
  Raspberry Pi on the car. See moped-building.txt.

A needs to be done first. Then the order is not always important, but
these ordering requirements exist:
B->C->D, C->G.

When you have a running system, you may want to do these things:

* Test whether the car functions: see moped-tests.txt.

* Write and run plugins, either in the car, or in the simulator.
  Some plugins are included.
  See moped-plugins.txt, moped-simulator.txt, moped-gui.txt.

* Extend or debug the system
  Nothing written yet.

B, C and D can be done on the same computer, or on different ones. I haven't
had B and C on different computers, so I didn't learn how to set up a
secure connection to mysql, but use "localhost".

There are two ways for the user to communicate with the server: using
the (web) GUI, or calling the server's web services directly, using some
programming language. For the latter, see moped-server-api.txt.


Github has a list of issues, which are suggested changes or problems to
be fixed. Issues which are not included there (yet) are listed in
moped-problems.txt.

The file moped-common-problems.txt describes some more or less common
situation in which the car doesn't do what you think it should, and
how to fix it.

The diagram illustrations/drawings/doc-map.png aims to be helpful
for locating documentation about a certain part of the system.

Things that don't fit into any of the text files mentioned above are put
into moped-misc.txt.

In the directory doc/illustrations, some pictures can be found, which are
referred to in the other documentation files.

On the MOPED site http://moped.sics.se you can find additional material,
for example explaining the architecture.
